Drive Gauge
Both players start each round with 6 bars of Drive Gauge, which can be spent on various offensive, defensive, and movement
techniques. When the gauge is not full, it automatically regenerates over time. Drive Gauge management is fundamental to
the game's strategy; players with better management will have a huge advantage over those who manage it poorly. It allows
for playstyles from slow and conservative to reckless gambling, making the Drive system a vehicle for player selfexpression.
Note: When reading frame data, 1 Bar = 10,000 Drive
meter; in most cases, a simple decimal is used instead
(e.g. 1.7 Drive).
Spending meter on Drive moves is not the only way for the gauge to decrease. Blocking attacks will cause some Drive meter
to be chipped away. The weakest attacks can chip around 5% of a Drive bar, while some can drain a full bar on their own.

This weakens passive, defensive playstyles significantly; defensive-minded players will have to focus more on their
positioning, and using techniques like Drive Parry to mitigate this disadvantage. Some attacks like Drive Impact, Super Arts,
and any Punish Counter also drain the Drive Gauge when they hit.
Drive System
Drive Move Drive Gauge Cost
Drive Impact
Drive Parry (Hold)
Drive Rush (from Parry)
Drive Rush (cancel)
Overdrive Specials
Drive Reversal
It's important to note that any Drive action can be performed, even if only a pixel of the Drive Gauge remains. This is great
for securing a KO at the end of a round, since the Burnout penalty does not carry over into the following round.
Increases Drive Gauge Decreases Drive Gauge
Attacking opponent
(Hit/Block)
Blocking attacks
Passive Regen over time
Getting hit by Super, Drive Impact, or Punish Counter
(Super cinematic also stops passive regeneration)
Successful Drive Parry
(especially useful vs. Supers)
Using Drive actions
Walking Forward
(stacks with passive regen)
Burnout
Burnout state happens when the player's Drive gauge becomes fully depleted. Burnout gives the player several negative
effects:
All blocked attacks have 4 additional frames of blockstun
This allows for much stronger pressure sequences; many more attacks become safe on block
Hitstun is not affected, so combo routes remain unchanged on burned out opponents
Blocking special moves or supers results in Chip Damage; can lose the round to Chip K.O.
Corner Drive Impact wall splat causes Stun on hit or block
Can no longer use any Drive options until gauge is fully replenished

Luke in Burnout
Luke performs a Drive Impact
Being in Burnout creates situations that are extremely difficult to escape, like looping corner
sequences that are plus on block. If a cornered player is stunned by Drive impact while in
Burnout, their Drive Gauge will be fully replenished after recovering from stun. The usual
methods of building Drive Gauge also help decrease the Burnout recovery time. While it may
be tempting to play passively while in Burnout, it may actually be more effective to mount a
strong offense, as you still gain Drive meter from hitting the opponent. Playing an aggressive,
offensive style can also make it harder for the opponent to push you back into the corner,
where Burnout becomes much more dangerous.
Drive Impact (DI)
Costs 1 Drive Stock. Input + (HP+HK) to perform.
DI startup frames are 26(27 on whiff), active for 2 frames, recovery is 35 frames, block advantage is -3 and it does 800 dmg
Drive Impact (DI) is a forward-lunging strike with 2 hits of armor during the startup
frames, allowing it to absorb and counter the opponent's attacks. If DI absorbs an attack or hits as a Punish Counter, the
opponent will be left in a crumple state on hit. The threat of DI makes it risky to throw out mid-range projectiles or
uncancellable pokes in neutral, but this generally requires a prediction rather than a reaction. Drive Impact has massive
pushback when blocked midscreen; this can be used to fight your way out of the corner. This blockstun causes a stagger state
that prevents Drive Reversal unless the DI is parried.
DI drains the opponent's Drive Gauge:
on Block on Hit on Counterhit on Punish/Crumple
0.5 Bar 1 Bar 1.2 Bars 1.5 Bars
Wall Splat: occurs if Drive Impact connects near the corner on hit or block, allowing a guaranteed followup juggle
While stuck to wall, the opponent is in a free juggle state where followup attacks will also juggle (similar to Force
Knockdown state)
example: Ryu can juggle 2HP xx 623HP, or Luke can juggle 5LP~MP~HP > Super without the opponent
falling out
If the DI hits an airborne opponent, the splat occurs higher on the wall; may allow stronger juggle followups
Wall Splat will not occur if performing a true combo or blockstring into DI
"LOCK" will appear on the screen after a true blockstring into DI; the opponent will bounce away as though it
happened midscreen

If a normal is cancelled into DI, a blockstring gap of 8f or less cannot be escaped by jumping
Combo damage scaling after Wall Splat:
On Hit: DI acts as 2 hits of the combo (100 -> 80 -> 70 -> 60...)
On Block: followup has 80% multiplier on standard scaling formula (80 -> 80 -> 64 -> 56 -> 48...)
Stun/Dizzy: occurs when Drive Impact connects on a cornered opponent while in Burnout state. Like Wall Splat, this works
on hit or block. The opponent is left vulnerable to a huge punish combo, and may also allow time for actions such as Ryu
charging Denjin, Kimberly reloading a spraycan, Juri gaining Fuha stocks, etc.
If the DI itself forces the opponent into Burnout, the Stun will still occur
Does not occur if DI connects in a true combo/blockstring (same as Wall Splat)
Because burned out opponents have no Drive options, their only counter to Drive Impact cancels is usually a reversal
Super Art
Combos on dizzy opponents begin at 80% damage scaling, then continue to decrease by 10% per hit as usual
The opponent can be hit for the next 195 frames from the moment they hit the wall; if untouched, they fall over into a
Hard Knockdown state
Drive Impact does have a few downsides:
Can be broken by Armor Break moves such as Super Arts or Drive Reversal, or by quick chained attacks
A common tactic is to use a poke cancelled into Fireball, then cancel into Lv. 3 Super on reaction to beat Drive
Impact
Against projectiles, there are 6 frames of armor hit-freeze that slow down your Drive Impact without affect the
opponent's recovery
This makes it difficult or impossible to use on reaction to fireballs unless they have very long recovery
Multi-hit OD fireballs have hit-freeze on each hit, making it even harder to armor through them
You take recoverable damage when absorbing an attack, which will KO if you don't have enough HP to survive
The opponent can react with their own Drive Impact, which hits as a Punish Counter
If two Drive Impacts clash simultaneously, they will clash with each other and reset to neutral. DI startup also becomes 1f
slower after absorbing an attack. As a result, this clash can occur if your normal connects on the opponent's first DI armor
frame, before cancelling into your own DI. As a side note, Drive moves take priority over special moves (but not Super Arts),
so something like Ryu's 236+HP+HK would result in Drive Impact rather than Hadoken.
Drive Reversal (DRev)
Costs 2 Drive Stocks. Press + + (6HPHK) during blockstun to perform.

"Perform a counterattack while blocking an
opponent’s attack. The damage is low but can
help you out of tight situations when you’re
being pressured." - Capcom.
"Automatically repel an opponent’s attack and
replenish Drive when performed successfully.
Perform a Perfect Parry by parrying just before
an opponent’s attack hits you." - Capcom.
St Act Rec Blk Adv Dmg
20 3 26 -8 500 (Rec)
Note: Chun-Li's DRev is 2 hits, with active frames 3(10)3
Similar to Alpha Counter or V-Reversal from previous Street Fighter games,
Drive Reversal is used to counterattack after blocking an opponent's attack.
DRev is fully invincible from frames 1-22, and deals a small amount of
recoverable damage on hit. Drive Reversals break armor, so you don't have
to worry that the opponent may cancel into Drive Impact as a counter.
All Drive Reversals are punishable at -8 on block, and are slow enough that
quick attacks will recover before the Drive Reversal connects. DRev immediately ends the blockstun of the opponent's
attack, so inputting it earlier increases the chance of successfully punishing the opponent's move. The blockstun of a
successful Parry can also be cancelled with Drive Reversal, and this is the only way to use it against Drive Impact. It is
impossible to win a round with the damage from Drive Reversal.
One of the strongest uses for Drive Reversal may be to prevent the opponent's corner escape; if they try to force some offense
to push you back, simply knock them back into the corner for 2 Drive bars. It's important to learn which of the opponent's
moves recovery quickly enough to block DRev, however, or you may end up getting punished and cornered yourself.
Drive Parry
Consumes ~1/2 Drive gauge upon activation, continues draining while
held. Hold + (MP+MK) to perform. Becomes a Perfect Parry if it
successfully parries an attack within 2 frames of being input.
St Act Rec
1 8~ [2] 29 [1]
Note: [] refers to Perfect Parry
Regular Parry:
Parries all strikes and projectiles (high and low) from frame 1
Results in the same frame advantage as blocking the move, but with
less pushback
Can be cancelled into Drive Reversal like regular blockstun
8f parry window if buttons are tapped, longer if held
Drains 50 Drive/frame when held (1 additional bar every 200f)
Can block during recovery frames (must still block in the correct direction)
Useful for blocking high/low or left/right mixups, but remains vulnerable to throws

Getting thrown during Parry results in a Punish Counter (extra damage, Hard Knockdown, loses 1 extra Drive bar)
Can cancel into Drive Rush from 3rd active frame onward
Fastest Drive Rush input method is to tap forward, then forward + Parry
Rewards 5000 Drive (1/2 bar) for successfully parrying non-Super projectiles (including multi-hit projectiles)
Some exceptions exist, like Kimberly double Spraycan (10000 total) or Guile Sonic Break (2000 each)
Rewards 10000 Drive (1 bar) for successfully parrying Normals, Specials (including multi-hit attacks), or Drive
Reversal
Target Combos or Rekka strings count as separate attacks, so parrying them builds 1 bar for each hit
Rewards 20000 Drive (2 bars) for successfully parrying Super Arts or Drive Impact
This makes it significantly better than blocking, unless the Parry activation would put you into Burnout
The opponent will also gain some Drive meter when their attack is parried, the same as if it was blocked
Perfect Parry:
Occurs on the first 2 active frames; Parry cannot be buffered by holding it down, must be timed properly
Has only 1f of recovery, and prevents the opponent from cancelling their attack, making punishes mostly guaranteed
The screen freezes upon a successful Perfect Parry, giving ample time to react with a strong punish
Fully invincible for 6f after success, during which time you can cancel into anything except Drive moves
A 50% damage scaling penalty is applied to any punish afterward, even if you delay the followup beyond the 6f
cancel window
Against projectiles, the screen does not freeze; puts you into 11f of fixed recovery
During this 11f recovery, the character is Throw invincible, and any further strikes will automatically be
parried
Perfect Parrying projectiles allows you to hold the input for up to 13 frames without incurring the standard 29f
of parry recovery
Perfect Parrying a strike and projectile on the same frame will parry the strike, causing the screen freeze effect
In general, Perfect Parry rewards you with the same amount of Drive meter as a regular Parry
However, the invincibility period can cause some attack hits to whiff, while still only building partial Drive for
the part that connected (e.g. Luke's charged Flash Knuckle)
Note: tapping Drive Parry for the minimum time technically costs slightly more than 1/2 Drive bar (unless cancelled into
immediate Drive Rush); at 10,000 Drive per bar, the usual cost is 5,250. When done from a crouching state, this cost is
increased to 5,300 (or 5,600 for Guile, Kimberly, and Luke). This difference is extremely minor, but could potentially be
relevant if attempting a parry with exactly 1/2 a Drive bar remaining.
Drive Rush (DR)
Costs 1 Drive Stock (after Parry) or 3 stocks (after cancellable normal). Tap (66) to perform.

"Perform a quick rush forward from a Drive
Parry or a cancelable normal attack. Drive
Rush from a parry costs 1 Drive Stock, while
Drive Rush from a normal attack costs 3 Drive
Stocks." - Capcom.
Luke performs an Overdrive Sand Blaster
St Act Rec
DR (Cancel) 9 [~45] 24
DR (Parry) 11 [~46] 23
Note: Active frames [] refers to the part of the dash that can be cancelled into a normal for
the +4 bonus
Drive Rush adds +4 to the Hit or Block Advantage of any Normal or
Command Normal that is input during the dash animation (but not to
Special moves). This makes it great for block pressure, combo extensions,
and safe mixups. The dash can be cancelled early by any attack, giving
access to a strike/throw mixup. This prevents players from holding Parry or
using Drive Impact as a universal defensive response. Normals from Drive
Rush also generally have increased juggle potential and do not increase the opponent's juggle count, allowing for unique
extended juggle sequences.
If Drive Rush is used mid-combo (whether cancelled or from raw Parry), an additional damage scaling penalty applies, and
no additional Drive gauge will be built for the rest of the combo. This does not apply to combos that begin with a Drive Rush
attack. Entering the cinematic of a Level 3 Super will also restart the passive regeneration of Drive meter.
The screen freezes for 10 frames during the startup of Drive Rush. This can help to provide a little extra time to decide what
to do next, such as reacting to hit/block, or reacting to an opponent's jump or dash animation. At the same time, it makes it
easier for the opponent to react to raw Drive Rush in neutral.
It takes a longer time (23-24f) before the Drive Rush can be cancelled with a directional input like crouch, block, or jump.
This means that Drive Rush into Block is not a practical way to bait an opponent's response. These late directional input
cancels have 2f recovery; as a result, inputting a crouching or command normal late in the Drive Rush animation requires
precise timing to receive the +4 frame advantage. The direction and button must be input together within a 3f window.
Overdrive (OD)
Costs 2 Drive Stocks. Press two Punches or Kicks while inputting a special
move to perform the Overdrive Art (OD) version.
Acts similarly to EX Special Moves from previous titles. Just like before,
input the special move with 2 punches or 2 kicks to perform an enhanced
special at the cost of 2 Drive stocks. OD specials can now combo into Super
Arts since they are no longer tied to the same meter.
OD moves generally have benefits like extra damage, faster startup,
lower recovery, and may even have invincibility
OD moves often put the opponent in a juggle state, or have higher juggle potential themselves
OD moves can be performed with less than 2 Drive stocks, but the player is immediately put into Burnout state
